Place for review comments (#1)
val-lang/standard: README.md

# 1. Introduction

Val is a research language based on the principles of mutable value semantics (MVS) (Racordon et al. 2022) for safety and efficiency. It is designed to help developers write and maintain correct programs using powerful abstractions without loss of efficiency.

Val is strongly related to the [Swift programming language](https://www.swift.org) and borrows liberally from its syntax and semantics. Nonetheless, it exposes a more elaborated memory model to the user for a tighter control over memory, blending ideas found in other languages such as Rust, C++, and Go.

On a theoretical front, Val owes greatly to linear types [(Wadler 1990)](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.31.5002&rep=rep1&type=pdf), ownership types [(Clarke et al. 2013)](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-36946-9_3), and capability-based type systems [(Smith et al. 2000)](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46425-5_24), while striving to hide the complexity inherent to these approaches. It does so by excluding first-class references from the user model and using continuations to mitigate the loss of expressiveness.

# 2. Lexical conventions

## 2.1. Program text

> 1. A Val program is written in text format. The text of a program is written using the [Unicode](https://home.unicode.org) character set and kept in units called source files. A source file is a sequence of Unicode characters represented with the UTF-8 encoding.

Author: Unfortunately "Unicode characters" is a bit ill-defined, and even the Unicode standard is (or at least was) inconsistent about it.  We should decide if it's a sequence of UTF-8 code units, Unicode Scalars, or of Unicode Extended Grapheme clusters.  If you want `trompé` to be the same identifier no matter how the editor created the `é` character, it's the latter.

Reviewer: I'm afraid I don't have solid enough knowledge to make an enlighten decision. I would like `trompé` or `日本` to be the same identifier no matter the editor.

2. This document refers to individual Unicode characters with the notation `U+n` where `n` is an hexadecimal value representing a Unicode code point, and refers to the Unicode general categories to identify groups of Unicode characters.

## 2.2. Lexical translations
    

> 1. An sequence of Unicode characters is translated to a sequence of tokens, which are the terminal symbols of the syntactic grammar. The following riles apply during the translation:

Author: ```suggestion
1. An sequence of Unicode characters is translated to a sequence of tokens. The following rules apply during translation:
```

The definition of "token" already appears elsewhere.

    1. Comments are ignored and treated as though they were substituted by a single space `U+20`.
    

>     2. Inline spaces are ignored, unless they appear between the opening and closing delimiters of a character or string literal. Inline spaces are recognized as `U+9` and/or `U+20`.

Author: - What does “inline” mean here?
- What does “are recognized as” mean here?

Author: I think perhaps you mean that `U+9` and `U+20` are recognized as spaces.  Isn't there a Unicode scalar class for these?

Reviewer: The category `Zs` (space separators) includes `U+20`. `U+9` is `tab` and belongs to `S` (segment separators).

>     3. New-line delimiters are ignored, unless they appear between the opening and closing delimiters of a character or string literal. New-line delimiters are recognized as `U+A`, and/or `U+D`, and/or the `U+D` directly followed by `U+A`.

Reviewer: Let's add a not here. Later it is said that tokens encode whether they are followed by a whitespace, a new line or another character.

>     3. New-line delimiters are ignored, unless they appear between the opening and closing delimiters of a character or string literal. New-line delimiters are recognized as `U+A`, and/or `U+D`, and/or the `U+D` directly followed by `U+A`.

Author: No need; I found the later statement

## 2.3. Comments

1. The characters `//` start a single-line comment, which terminates immediately before the next new-line delimiter.

> 2. The characters `/*` denote a comment opening delimiter and the characters `*/` denote a comment closing delimiter. An opening comment delimiter starts a multiline comment, which terminates after a matching closing delimiter. Each opening delimiter must have a matching closing delimiter. Multiline comments may nest.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The character sequences `/*` and `*/` denote multiline comment opening and closing delimiters, respectively. A multiline comment opening  delimiter starts a comment that terminates immediately after a matching closing delimiter. Each opening delimiter must have a matching closing delimiter. Multiline comments may nest, and need not contain any new-line characters.
```

> 3. The characters `//` have no special meaning in a multiline comment. The characters `/*` and `*/` have no special meaning in a single-line comment. The characters `//` and `/*` have no special meaning in a string literal. Conversely, string opening delimiters have no special meaning in a comment.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The characters `//` have no special meaning in a multiline comment. The characters `/*` and `*/` have no special meaning in a single-line comment. The characters `//` and `/*` have no special meaning in a string literal. String and character literal delimiters have no special meaning in a comment.
```

You did mention character literals somewhere.  Not sure if we need them, and I'm partial to writing strings with single quotes when I can.  All that said, I think this whole item could be omitted.

## 2.4. Tokens

> 1. A token is a terminal symbol of the syntactic grammar. It falls into one of five categories: scalar literals, keywords, raw identifiers, raw operators, and punctuators.

Author: From scanning the whole document, it's unclear what the “raw” modifier means in “raw identifier,” or why we would need to distinguish it from any other kind of identifier.

Reviewer: The section describing identifiers is missing. The idea is that `first` is a raw identifier that could be part of a function identifier `first(where:)`.

> 2. A token is associated with a three-valued flag specifying whether it was followed by a raw character, an inline space (including an inline space substituted for a comment), or a new-line delimiter in the sequence of Unicode characters.

Author: ```suggestion
2. A token is associated with a three-valued flag specifying whether it was followed by a raw character, an inline space (including an inline space substituted for a comment), or a new-line delimiter in the source file.
```
